Aktaion: Behavior Based Exploit Detection
https://github.com/jzadeh/aktaion
https://github.com/jzadeh/aktaion2

We present a research project called Aktaion that is python/java open source built for detection of malicious payloads at the network level. The project combines paradigms in cybersecurity and machine learning similar to production analytic workflows in large scale enterprise operations. Aktaion has been demoed at many security events including Blackhat, Defcon and BSides often leading to some fun research conversations. We started this research focused specifically on crypto ransomware delivery and attack behavior and will discuss the project in relation to detection of ransomware delivery.

Ransomware has become a popular attack vector used by malicious actors to quickly turn infections into profits and the trend has increased at an alarming rate. From a defensive perspective, the detection of new ransomware variants relies heavily on signatures and endpoint antivirus at the host level. This approach is inefficient at protecting targets against the rapid changes in tactics and delivery mechanisms typical of modern ransomware campaigns. We describe how Aktaion fits into the model of defense in this case and how we can use some of the abstractions exposed in the logic to model much broader classes of attack behaviors. 

Bio: Principal Security Research Engineer, Splunk's Threat Research Team. Joseph has spent a career in Silicon Valley building behavioral intrusion detection technologies at scale for a variety of use cases some times to help enterprise security as well as the fight against human trafficking. He enjoys working on Blue/Purple team research projects that combine security, artificial intelligence and distributed systems. Joseph has BS in Mathematics from UCR (2004) and a MS in Computational Financial Mathematics (2007) and PhD in Mathematics (2012) from Purdue University. He can be reached on Linkedin at https://www.linkedin.com/in/joseph-zadeh, or social media Twitter: @JosephZadeh, Discord/Twitch: @mathmakesmedance

